Power BI Assignment-1

1. What do you mean by BI? Explain.
Ans. BI stands for Business Intelligence. It refers to an infrastrucutre which collects and analyzes data to help companies
	make data driven decisions which will help them stay competitive and grow their profits.For analysis, we use some 
	softwares called BI tools. In every business, management needs to understand the growth and opportunities for growth. To 
	make informed decision, they need data which could be stored in various data warehouses of companies. Now the collected 
	data has to filtered to an extent which would help to solve that business problem. If the data is in just plain numbers 
	it would not be much readable. So the final reports are created where the cleaned and relevant data is represented in the 
	form of charts and graphs. This representation is much more readable and easy to take insights from. 

2. How Power-BI helps in BI, and how does it help Analysts? Explain.
Ans. Power BI helps in easy data loading and visualization. It helps analysts in the sense that an analyst can represent data
	in the form of charts and graphs which will make data more readable. With Power BI, an analyst doesn't have to write any 
	code or remember syntaxes. It can easily be used and manipulated by tech and non-tech person.The whole tool is very easy 
	to navigate which have multiple of charts and graphs pre loaded and a very rich library where developers from around the 
	world have developed charts and are free to use. Data representation is as easy as dragging and dropping the desired 
	field. It gives a wide range of connectivity from different data sources. 

3. Explain Descriptive analytics?
Ans. Descriptive analytics is the part of analytics where we understand why a problem happened using data. For this we use 
	current and historical data to establish relationships and display trends. It is the simplest of all other analytics, 
	as in here we are just using tools to show the trends and relationships and not deep diving in the data. 

4. Explain Predictive analytics?
Ans. In predictive analytics, we use tools to understand the trends and relationships of historic data to predict the future. 
	Although we know future is unpredictable, data helps us make a better decision. In predictive analysis, we are using 
	historic trends to forecast possible future events using data. Example of predictive analytics is weather forecasting. 
	

5. Explain Prescriptive analytics?
Ans. Prescriptive analytics is the form of analytics where we use data to develop an optimal course of action. By considering
	all factors, we make a data driven decision. Machine learning algorithms help us parse through the data faster and 
	efficiently. With ML, we can quickly go through huge chunks of data which will help us to make recommendation based on a
	specific combination of requirements. It is important to note that while ML algorithms can give us data driven 
	recommendation but it can still not replace human discernment. Prescriptive analytics will just provide recommendations
	strategies but our judgement is still needed to make the decisions.
	

6. Write five real-life questions that PowerBI can solve.
Ans.(a) Gathering information from different departments is hectic job in every organization. You have to rely on different
	departments for the data, interpret it and then produce actionable insights. Power BI helps to access data instantly. It 
	can handle large amounts of data. It can automatically connect to different data sources saving time and effort. Once a 
	report is created you only have to hit refresh or enable schedule refresh to get real time insights.
	
	(b) Everyone wants to use high quality data for analysis. High quality data helps to make better decision and saves the
	company from making costly mistakes. Power BI quickly understand data quality issues and provides numerous ways to solve
	them. Power Query provides features to clean and prepare data. Data profiling can help you remove all the 
	inconsistencies, null values and data quality problems. 
	
	(c) Data security is an essential part for adoption of any technology. If data is not secured properly it may get lost by
	system failure, altered or deleted by hackers. Power BI comes with Azure Active Directory for authentication and Power BI
	login credentials to access the resources. You can grant access to your data to people of your choice.
	
	(d) Company uses many visualization tools which are complicated and can only handled and manipulated by a tech expert. If 
	any changes are needed, the management has to wait for the tech expert to do so. However, Power BI is very easy to 
	navigate and can be handled by a non tech person also. For changes one must not always have to rely on a tech expert. 
	It's easy to use interface and navigation makes it versatile.
	
	(e) Every business has to analyse and understand trends in their business to stay completitive in the market. They need 
	to understand it to predict future and opportunities. Power BI helps in monitoring the processes of the company. Data 
	Analysis Expressions(DAX) provides a wide range of functionalities in trends analysis.