Power BI Assignment-2

1. Explain the advantages of Natural Queries in PowerBi with an example?
Ans.Natural Language Query is a feature in Power BI which helps to generate or manipulate the graphs according to one's
	specific requirement. This feature in Power BI listed as Q&A. This helps the user to type their requirement and thus 
	Power BI will show the graph according to that. For example, an analyst has developed a beautiful dashboard using different
	charts and different factors. Now one of the member of leadership is just interested in knowing how much is the sales in 
	the last year 5 years. He just have to type in the Q&A section: "Sales in 5 years". Then the visualizations will change and 
	show him sales for 5 years. While creating a dashboard, it is good to include this as we don't know how much the end user
	may know about Power BI and this will help them tailor the visualization according to the need. 

2. Explain Web Front End(WFE) cluster from Power BI Service Architecture?
Ans.Web Front End cluster manages the initial connection and authentication to Power BI service. The WFE cluster uses Azure AD to authenticate clients, 
	and provide tokens for subsequent client connections to the Power BI service. Power BI uses the Azure Traffic Manager 
	(Traffic Manager) to direct user traffic to the nearest datacenter. Traffic Manager directs requests using the DNS record	
	of the client attempting to connect, authenticate, and to download static content and files. Power BI uses the Azure 
	Content Delivery Network (CDN) to efficiently distribute the necessary static content and files to users based on 
	geographical locale.


3. Explain Back End cluster from Power BI Service Architecture?
Ans. The Back-End cluster determines how authenticated clients interact with the Power BI service. The Back-End cluster manages 
	visualizations, user dashboards, datasets, reports, data storage, data connections, data refresh, and other aspects of 
	interacting with the Power BI service. The Gateway Role acts as a gateway between user requests and the Power BI service.
	Users don't interact directly with any roles other than the Gateway Role. Azure API Management eventually handles the 
	Gateway Role.



4. What ASP.NET component does in Power BI Service Architecture?
Ans. ASP.NET is an open-source, server-side web-application framework designed for web development to produce dynamic web 
	pages. It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites, applications and services. The 
	name stands for Active Server Pages Network Enabled Technologies. With ASP.NET, we can embed the Power BI report when 
	published online on Power BI online. We just have to copy the markup from Power BI portal, paste it to ASP.NET Core 
	view and done.


5. Compare Microsoft Excel and PowerBi Desktop on the following features:
	Data import
	Data transformation
	Modeling
	Reporting
	Server Deployment
	Cost
Ans.Data import:
	When it comes to data import, MS Excel can only import from few data sources like xls, xlsx, etc. The whole list can be 
	found as follows: Data> Get data.
	When compared to Excel Power BI's connectivity to data source is high. The list is very long. All the data sources can be
	found as follows: Home> Get data.
	
	Data transformation:
	To transform data, one has to first load the data. In Excel we have to follow these steps Data> Get data> Then select the
	data source>Data transformation can be done.
	In Power BI, to transform data we have to open Power Query. The steps are Home> Transform data> Transform data or we can 
	also do the same while loading data as Home> Get data> Select data source> Select data> Transform data.

	Modeling:
	In Excel, data models are created as follows: Select the table> Power Pivot > Add to Data Model. 
	In Power BI, data models are created automatically when importing data from the sources. 

	Reporting:
	In Excel, we can create a visual report as follows: Select the data> Insert> Recommended charts> All charts.
	In Power BI, we have to load the data first. Under Report we can then select the chart or graphs.

	Server Deployment:
	In Excel a file can be shared on server as Select Share>Select permissions and then Apply>Add people>Type a message if 
	you like> Select Send.
	Power BI copies the content from the current stage, into the target one. The connections between the copied 
	items are kept during the copy process.
	
	Cost:
	The cost of MS Excel for a year is $160 and per month $6.99.
	Power BI Pro costs $9.99/user/month and Power BI Premium costs $20/user/month.

6. List 20 data sources supported by Power BI desktop.
Ans.20 data sources supported by Power BI desktop are: 
	1.	Excel Workbook
	2.	Text/CSV
	3.	XML
	4.	JSON
	5.	Folder
	6.	PDF
	7.	Parquet
	8.	SharePoint folder
	9.	Adobe Analytics	
	10.	Amazon Athena	
	11.	Amazon Redshift	
	12.	Google Sheets	
	13.	Google BigQuery	
	14.	Anaplan	
	15.	Azure Data Explorer (Kusto)		
	16.	Google Analytics	
	17.	Hadoop File (HDFS)	
	18.	Hive LLAP	
	19.	IBM DB2	
	20.	IBM Informix Database	

