Q1. List and explain different PowerBI products?
Ans. Different Power BI products offered by Microsoft are:
	-Power BI Desktop: Power BI Desktop is a free application you install on your local computer that lets you connect to, 
	 transform, and visualize your data. With Power BI Desktop, you can connect to multiple different sources of data, and 
	 combine them (often called modeling) into a data model.
	
	-Power BI Pro: It is for license individual users with modern, self-service analytics to visualise data with live 
	 dashboards and reports, and share insights across the organisation. It is included in Microsoft 365 E5.
	
	-Power BI Premium: License individual users to accelerate access to insights with advanced AI, unlock self-service data 
	 prep for big data, and simplify data management and access at enterprise scale. It includes all the features available 
	 with Power BI Pro.
	
	-Power BI Mobile: Power BI offers a set of mobile apps for iOS, Android, and Windows mobile devices. In the mobile apps, 
	 you connect to and interact with your cloud and on-premises data. All these reports and dashboards are available in the 
	 BI mobile apps, whether they're on premises or in the cloud. You can view and interact with them on your mobile device.
	
	-Power BI Embedded: Power BI embedded analytics allows you to embed your Power BI items such as reports, dashboards and 
	 tiles, in a web application or in a website.
	
	-Power BI Report Server: Power BI Report Server is an on-premises report server with a web portal in which you display 
	 and manage reports and KPIs. Along with it come the tools to create Power BI reports, paginated reports, mobile reports,
	 and KPIs.

Q2. What limitations of Microsoft Excel solved by Power BI?
Ans.(a).Excel is used to organize data, transform it and perform mathematical operations and calculations. On the other hand, 
	Power BI was conceived as a business intelligence and data visualization tool for businesses.
	(b)Excel has limitations in the amount of data it can work with. In contrast, Power BI can handle much larger amounts of 
	data.
	(c)Power BI can connect to a large number of data sources, while Excel's connectivity capacity is limited. Also, unlike 
	Excel, Power BI can be easily used from mobile devices.
	(d)Power BI has faster processing than Excel.
	(e)Power BI dashboards are more visually appealing, interactive and customizable than those in Excel.
	(f)Power BI is a more powerful tool than Excel in terms of comparison between tables, reports or data files.
	(g)Power BI is more user friendly and easy to use than Excel.

Q3.Explain PowerQuery?
Ans.Power Query is a data transformation and data preparation engine. Power Query comes with a graphical interface for 
	getting data from sources and a Power Query Editor for applying transformations. Because the engine is available in many 
	products and services, the destination where the data will be stored depends on where Power Query was used. Using Power 
	Query, you can perform the extract, transform, and load (ETL) processing of data.



Q4.Explain PowerMap?
Ans.A power map lets us discover insights we might not see in traditional two-dimensional (2-D) tables and charts. With 
	Power Map, we can plot geographic and temporal data on a 3-D globe or custom map, show it over time, and create visual 
	tours we can share with other people.

Q5. How Power BI eliminated the need to host SharePoint Server on premises?
Ans. Microsoft rolled out Power BI Service which made it not necessary to host SharePoint Server on premises. It was released
	on July 2015. Power BI service is a cloud-based business analytics and data visualization service that enables anyone to 
	visualize and analyze data with greater speed, efficiency, and understanding.

Q6.Explain the updates done in Power BI Service(power BI 2.0) as compared to older version ?
Ans. The following updates are new to Power BI Desktop this month:
	-Slicer type formatting moved to Format Pane.
	-Making it easier to do comparison calculations.
	-Many updated data connectors.
	-Power BI org app Multiple Audiences now generally available.
	-Deprecation of Getting Started in expanded view.
	-Changes to the Get Data experience