Power BI Assignment 5

Q1. Explain DAX.
Ans. Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) is a formula expression language used in Analysis Services, Power BI, and Power Pivot in 
	Excel. DAX formulas include functions, operators, and values to perform advanced calculations and queries on data in 
	related tables and columns in tabular data models.

Q2. Explain datasets, reports, and dashboards and how they relate to each other?
Ans. A dataset is a collection of data that you import or connect to. Power BI lets you connect to and import all sorts of 
	datasets and bring all of it together in one place. Datasets can also source data from dataflows. Datasets are associated 
	with workspaces and a single dataset can be part of many workspaces.

	A Power BI report is a multi-perspective view into a dataset, with visuals that represent findings and insights from that 
	dataset. A report can have a single visual or many pages full of visuals. 
	
	A Power BI dashboard is a single page, often called a canvas, that tells a story through visualizations. Because it's 
	limited to one page, a well-designed dashboard contains only the highlights of that story.

	A dataset is used to create one or more report. Multiple reports make a dashboard which could be coming from one dataset or
	more.

Q3. How reports can be created in power BI, explain two ways with Navigation of each.
Ans. Currently, we can only create a report based on an existing dataset or pasting or manually entering data directly in a 
	table. For manually entering the the data the steps are: 
	Create> Paste or manually enter data> Enter the data or paste it.	
	For report creation from existing dataset the steps are: 
	Create> Pick a published dataset> Select the existing dataset

Q4. How to connect to data in Power BI? How to use the content pack to connect to google analytics? Mention the steps.
Ans. We can connect to the data sources via "Get data" from the Home ribbon tab. 
	To connect to google analytics the steps are:
	1. In Power BI Desktop, select Get data from the Home ribbon tab and click More.
	2. In the Get Data window, select Online Services from the categories in the left pane.
	3. Select Google Analytics from the selections in the right pane.
	4. At the bottom of the window, select Connect

Q5. How to import Local files in Power BI? Mention the Steps.
Ans. To import Local files in Power BI the steps are:
	1. In Power BI Desktop, select Get data from the Home ribbon tab and click More.
	2. In the Get Data window, select File from the categories in the left pane.
	3. Now you can select the file type as per the requirements.

Q6. In Power BI visualization, what are Reading View and Editing view?
Ans. The Power BI service has two different modes for interacting with reports: Reading view for report business users and 
	Editing view for report owners and creators. We need a Power BI Pro or Premium Per User (PPU) license to share reports 
	and to edit reports created by others. Without a Pro or Premium Per User (PPU) license, we can still create reports in 
	your My Workspace, but you can't share them.
	In report Editing view, you have flexibility in both exploring and designing a report. All the Reading view functionality
	is available plus much more.
	


